SOME USEFUL MESSAGE WILL GO HERE
### Status: ALL Screen UIs are restored. Metronome Functionality is implemented on main screen. Trackbuilder in progress. Back-end started locally.

~~There is currently a "minimum working app", aka you can launch in Expo Go with SDK 54. However you will find that the app is... uhhhhh, not our app. It's the app from the Expo tutorial found [here](https://docs.expo.dev/tutorial/introduction/) (as of 12/05/2025).~~

Expo now uses TypeScript, and our original app used JavaScript, and there have been a whole bunch of upgrades that we failed to stay on top of, so it's not an easy "just update Expo and the dependencies" because the webpack something-or-other only allows up to SDK 50 and we're now on SDK 54. Thus, it is time to innovate anew and create a new Beatle. A Vampire Beatle, if you will.

Now what is a Vampire Beatle, you may ask? A Vampire Beatle is just as it sounds. It sucks your lifeblood and turns you into an undead ghoul. Its weakness is garlic. It is shaped like a bug. Did I just say bug? Our app has lots of bugs! Jk, it doesn't yet. Maybe it will after it has sustained lots of updates and the original code incompatibility is buried under 123 commits. Well, if you read all that, good for you. That's all from ME for now. Stay tuned for updates.

UPDATE (12/10/2025):
I have restored the entire UI of the main metronome screen (!!!) through the conversion of the AccentButtons, BoxyBox, Counters, PausePlayButton, SoundButton, and SoundSelection components to tsx files and incrementally restoring the main layout within the default Metronome screen function. I also fixed the bug with typing in tempos and BPM numbers where you could type in numbers outside of range/the code would try correcting the tempo/beat before you were done typing. The technical writing modal is partially restored. The component itself has been converted to TypeScript and pressing the '?' icon will pull up *a* modal, but the format is wonky and needs to be fixed. I suspect this is due to the usage of a Modal.tsx file in the original project instead of importing Modal from react-native. I have npm installed 2 things for this project so far: expo-router and react-native-dropdown-select-list. I have also set up simple navigation using Expo Router instead of react-navigation, because I don't believe Stack.Navigation is used within the new version(s) of Expo and/or React(?). Oh, and it currently works on both Android and web. I don't believe our final version of the original Beatle app actually worked on web, so I'll keep tabs on this as I proceed. Untested on iOS (but neither was the original, because we were all based enough to use Android).

UPDATE (12/17/2025):
It has now been exactly 2 years since our original presentation over the Beatle project. So, happy anniversary to that, I guess. I haven't had time to work on the app in the past few days, but I figured I'd give a progress report on what has been done in the past week. I successfully re-enabled the usage of sound within the app. There is now a consistent(ish) metronome sound on both Android and web. Sounds update according to the selected SoundName ('Default', 'Drum', 'Piano', 'Shotgun', or 'Snap') and they also update based on the accent indicator. Sound was a challenge to convert, because of the deprecation of the Audio API from expo-av, which we used heavily before. I am now using the AudioPlayer API from expo-audio, which should have greater LTS. However, AudioPlayer objects are destroyed and recreated, and the delay in recreating the object every time a sound changed caused missed beats when I tried doing a simple conversion. I got it working by using three pre-loaded AudioPlayer objects: one for silent, one for normal, and one for accent. The useAudioPlayer hook only needs to switch sounds when the SoundName is changed then, not when the beat switches from a normal beat to an accented beat. I also found myself confused by some of the naming conventions we used before so I refactored these to be easier to follow. I also fixed a few sound bugs, but there may still be issues with exact timing due to JavaScript/TypeScript being single-threaded. Besides sound, I successfully converted the trackbuilder, sign up, and log in screens as well as applicable components to TypeScript. I also enabled navigation using expo-router between the screens. The functions to add, delete, view saved tracks, and save tracks have not been implemented yet but the UI is fully there. The two new packages this week that I installed were: expo-audio and react-native-modal. I have not decided if my next step should be the recreation of the back-end database or if I should allow local non-database creation of click tracks through trackbuilder. As of today, the app on Android will only launch through tunneling. I am not sure why this is and it deserves some troubleshooting in the future.

UPDATE (12/19/2025):
I am providing an update a little earlier than usual because I have to focus on securing a Real Job℠ and I am putting this project aside for a bit. Since my last update 2 days ago, I reintroduced the AddMeasure component and modal logic, reimplemented the example click track, got add and delete measure functionality working, got some sound to play from Trackbuilder, albeit jankily, troubleshooted (troubleshot?) some things regarding placing a FlatList within a ScrollView (an ongoing issue), and started to reimplement functions that fetch from the back-end. That involved probably the most major update since Wednesday, which is that I converted all the PostgreSQL from our Service repo to SQLite, imported it into DB Browser creating the database, and wrote some server code so that I could run the back-end locally through Node. I explored platform differences related to API_URL, reimplemented /allUsers and /makeUser which relate to SignUp and LogIn, did some more TypeScript conversions in the functions that control user creation and retrieval, and some other things. I will write out a full step-by-step guide for how to set up a local back-end later. The user is now able to 
sign up, which will modify the database, and log in, which retrieves all UNs and PWs in plain text (⚠️security vulnerability!⚠️) from the database and compares user input to that, but right now the database is not hosted virtually. I am thinking of paying for a VPS (Virtual Private Server) for that eventually, but I figured a local back-end would suffice for testing since I wasn't the back-end expert when we were using Azure originally. I also spent significant time trying to deal with 'id' in the Trackbuilder file, discovered that it's used for three (3) different things, tried to separate those things, moved fast and broke things, and then reverted to before I moved fast and broke things. Now time to go fail an interview, wish me luck yay.

UPDATE (02/04/2026):
Admittedly I haven't made much progress since the last update. I have been focusing primarily on other endeavors, such as securing the job I mentioned in the previous update (of which I've had no luck thus far). Yet I digress. Something I did add since the last update is a global AuthContext.tsx for the purpose of sustaining log-in status across the whole app. I mentioned in last update how 'id' was used in the original app for a triple-purpose. I determined that this approach wasn't ideal nor was the way it was previously implemented fully functional, so I created an AuthContext that components can provide or read in a separate file then worked to create a hook that includes setUsername (so the username associated with the current account is remembered) in LogIn.tsx. Now, at log-in time, the username is stored in the AuthContext. Evidently, useAuth must be used within something called an AuthProvider, which I'm still learning about. In Trackbuilder, I also created loggedInFlag and a corresponding setter that makes use of the AuthContext to replace one of the 3 purposes of the previously used 'id' variable. To confirm that things work as expected, I also created a hook for the title text; instead of "Welcome" the Trackbuilder will display "Welcome" + the user's username if logged in. Apart from the log-in issues I worked to resolve, I added back the export functions in the back-end for use in routes (ex: '/allUsers' maps to the readallUsers function) that was in our previous back-end, and I adapted the remaining theUser-modifying functions - update and delete - to use SQLite syntax instead of PostgreSQL syntax. These functions haven't been tested because there is no option in the front-end to edit or delete a user account; this is consistent with our previous version of Beatle. This is a feature I'd like to add in the future. One outstanding issue with the app that hasn't been restored from Beatle is that while the metronome is playing, switching to a new page will not trigger the app to stop playing sound or reset the PausePlay button, even though the code to do this is there. I suspect this is somehow linked to the new way to play audio using AudioPlayer objects instead of the deprecated Audio API, but I haven't yet been able to get to the root of the issue, because the code itself *appears* to be correct (method/handler is being called, because the router is pushing the new screen). Another problem is that the trackbuilder metronome will play beats, but it won't play the correct beats. I do not particularly know why this is but also haven't dug deep into this issue yet. From looking back at old email threads, it seems that our app was left in this condition way back in 2023 after our final presentation, as we'd already received a grade and the faults in trackbuilder were not deemed critical and therefore never fixed. Still, part of the VampireBeatle project is to correct issues we had with the original Beatle. Other things that should be addressed in the future include:
- Not all back-end APIs have been (re-)implemented.
- There is a delay when switching sounds/sometimes the app skips (mutes) the first accent beat.
- Regular metronome doesn't turn off when switching to trackbuilder screen, as mentioned --> doesn't seem to run code in handler besides router push.
- Cannot scroll in FlatList on mobile due to the use of a FlatList within a ScrollView (no good solution found).
- Actual rhythm sometimes lags and is sometimes too fast.
- Debugging alerts will need to be removed eventually.
- The keyboard covers up the login/signup screen when entering text.
- Back-end should be moved to a VPS and possibly re-converted to PostgreSQL for scalability and integrity.
